Michael Cummings
2.5.2020
CS-140
Project 1 Discussion Log

The first challenge I had in writing this program was trying to separate the shapes in the diagram from each other and determining how to calculate the areas of each. For the circular flowerbeds, I treated them as four circles, two larger and two smaller. The area of the smaller circles would be the area of the circular flowerbeds, and the larger circles with the area of the flowerbeds subtracted would be each circular sidewalk. I discovered the sidewalk width could be determined by taking the difference between the radii of the two circles. For example, in one sample output log, x was assigned to 30, and y to 20. In the diagram, x was equal to the diameter of the larger circle, and y was equal to the diameter of the smaller. If I took half of each, I got the radius for each circle. If I subtracted the smaller radius from the larger, the difference would give me the sidewalk width. So, if I took 1/2 of 30 and 1/2 of 20, I got two radii of 15 and 10. 15 - 10 = 5, giving me a sidewalk width of 5 feet.
The most difficult challenges I faced writing this program were determining the formulas I needed to use within the program to output the correct measurements. For example, while attempting to calculate the middle area, at first I was receiving a negative number as a result. I saw the middle area as a square with 1/2 of the sidewalk area subtracted from it. At first, the program was outputting a negative value for the area. I discovered I was using the wrong formula to determine the area of the square; I was calculating 2 * x (the length of one of the sides of the square in the diagram), rather than x^2, the correct formula. Afterwards, I saw my output was now too large. I realized I had not subtracted the area of the circular flowerbeds overlapping the middle section from my calculation. After taking this step, the program began outputting correctly.
I also had some difficulty in the beginning with assigning the outputs of calculations to the float variables. The compiler would tell me that I could not assign a double to a float variable, and I spent a little while trying to figure out which number or variable within the statement I needed to coerce to a float to get the compiler to accept it. Ultimately, I found I needed to coerce the output of the whole statement to a float, which was also the topic of a question I missed on the Week 3 quiz. I needed to do this when calculating the areas of the large and small circles, as well as the sidewalk width and middle area.
One question I have is about the final three lines of output, printing the amount of soil needed for the sections of the garden. Is the label meant to be 'square yards' in the terminal window for those lines, rather than cubic feet? soilArea * middleArea (or smCircleArea) is a measurement of feet multiplied by a measurement of square feet, which I believe gives an output of cubic feet. Then, we divide that output by cubic feet per square yards. So, 27 cubic feet are in one square yard. Isn't the program outputting how many square yards the soil would occupy, rather than cubic feet? For example, given x=45, y=37, spacing=.7 and soilDepth=.6, as in output log 2, wouldn't it be correct for the program to print "Total soil for each circle garden: 23.893559 square yards", rather than "23.893559 cubic feet"?